We're delighted you could join us.
Welcome to JW Broadcasting for December 2021.
The Watchtower Bible School of Gilead has now completed 150 classes.
This certainly is a Theocratic milestone made possible with Jehovah's help.
This 150th class was a little different.
There were only 24 students, which is much less than usual.
And because of travel restrictions based on the COVID-19 pandemic,
all are citizens of the United States.
Though this group was different than in years past, the goal remained the same.
To strengthen their faith so that they can strengthen others wherever they are assigned.
The graduation program helped the students to focus on key points they will benefit from on into the future.
Please enjoy part one of the graduation that was held on Saturday, September 11, 2021,
at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, New York.
I'm going to go back in many decades ago, Monday, March 6, 1972.
Some of you in the class weren't alive.
I think I know of one for sure, was alive.
That's inside joke, not inside story.
Along with my wife, we had the privilege, and that was rare, unless you were a Bethelite,
to attend the graduation of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
It was the 52nd class.
So we're in the assembly hall, jam-packed there in New York City,
and just enjoying what a privilege for us to sit here and enjoy this program.
This 52nd class.
Now here we are almost 100, just two classes later, 150th class.
And now we're grateful because many are tied in live as we speak,
but then the rest of the brotherhood is going to have it available in a few months.
So boy, things have changed and they enjoy that privilege, but that was a rare privilege.
And I remember where the nor was the chairman of the program,
and certainly he just loved Gilead.
I mean, you've got to give him, of course, Jehovah used him mightily to get it all started there.
43, the first one, but knowing that the beast was coming out,
Jehovah bless him said, yeah, we need a missionary school.
It was a missionary school for years.
But anyway, the thing I wanted to mention is, I remember an outstanding talk.
I'd heard Brother Fred Franz, the summer before at the Yankee Stadium convention,
but we were a little closer there in the assembly hall.
And I'll tell you what, I was just glued to him.
If you had the privilege to hear him, Jehovah bless, he had a blessed, beautiful mind.
He could just quote these scriptures, and I've told folks now,
if you don't pay attention to stay with him, you're going to get lost.
He's going to lose you, but if you pay attention, it was thrilling.
Just to hear him.
Pour out his heart because it was all written on his figure of heart.
But he discussed it. Please ask these five.
That's why I was thinking to bring it up for your class here,
because this is really directed to you.
And he spoke there about vows.
And those first seven verses, dreams are mentioned.
And I appreciate it because it just struck me when he mentioned it.
The dreams don't refer to dreams one has while they're sleeping because of a busy day.
Now, you can't get that on your own.
Just reading Ecclesiastes with whatever version you had.
It had to do with getting sidetracked with personal pursuits, these dreams.
These are the things they're doing.
And that would be vanity, as we've said then.
So let's just take a moment here in the class.
And others are going to follow along and please ask these five.
Just touch on some of the nice things.
And of course, you can.
Now, you don't do it right now, but you can do it later.
You have access to the research guide and in depth understanding of this wisdom and ecclesiastes.
And Brother Francis addressed it.
And for example, verse one, watch your step.
So this is for here.
You are soon to be graduates.
Do you hope it's saying watch your step?
Don't stop doing that.
You have thus far so continue to watch your step.
And he mentions those morally stupid ones.
That's not you.
You're going to avoid that.
And then I love this in verse two.
Do not be quick with your mouth.
Boy, there's a lot of people in the world who can benefit from that counsel.
That's true.
It's like, does he or she ever shut up?
I mean, I bet you they talk in their sleep.
They just won't shut up.
Then anyway, don't be quick with your mouth, particularly in context here.
When you're speaking to Jehovah.
Boy, that's some good things because this you brothers will speak in public.
But you sisters too, when it's personal with your prayers to Jehovah.
Don't be quick with your mouth when you approach the sovereign of the universe.
Your words should be few.
You do not impress God with vocabulary.
He's impressed with sincerity of heart.
Loves those that love him.
And all different languages, he treasures those prayers.
And then he mentions this about a dream comes from too many preoccupations
and the revised Bible here.
Too many cares.
So this idea isn't just dreams from a busy busy day.
This preoccupation with self is being warned against here.
Don't do it.
They do not do it.
Don't be preoccupied with yourself.
And those that are there, many words from them.
But be careful.
You have the privilege now.
You'll be praying more in public.
Probably than you have ever before.
You get privileges.
And when you're praying to Jehovah, sometimes we don't want to be counseling,
criticizing prayers.
We try to be careful of that.
But sometimes you even hear a prayer at best and it's like,
OK, we're trying to eat breakfast here.
And I told folks, it's like, you know, I just can't help it.
But Jesus is there, most eloquent person to walk the planet.
And the meal comes.
He raises his eyes to heaven and gave things.
Amen.
Let's eat.
I mean, there are other times you want to pour out your heart and all that.
But you're not praying to the audience.
You're talking to the sovereign of the universe.
The council is, you know, you know, now I'm a Gillian graduate.
Your brother's particularly, I might have longer prayers.
I hope not.
I sure hope not.
Unless they're private.
But then he gets into something crucial.
And it's just so important to keep mine verse four.
Let's read four and five.
Whenever you make a vow to God, do not delay to pay it.
For he finds no pleasure in the stupid ones, morally stupid.
Then very clear, what you vow, pay, what you vow, pay.
And then it's better for you not to vow than to vow in that pay.
So this is serious counsel.
And the warning, don't allow your mouth to cause you to sin.
Now, so when it comes to vows and some of you are married,
well, you had the vow.
You always have to hold on to that.
That's not a light matter what you've got.
And in the other vow, so be careful.
If you're going to make a vow, it's between you and him.
But see, notice here.
Do not allow in verse six, your mouth to cause you to sin.
And do not say before the angel.
You see, think about this.
That it was a mistake.
So Jehovah has the angels doing all sorts of things.
We don't even begin to know the things that are always going on all the time.
Jehovah's service.
It's holy angels.
It's priceless.
But see angels are according to this sign.
So check out these things.
So you don't say to the angel, well, look, I made a mistake.
Forgive me.
You made a vow.
But see, it shouldn't be because an angel is going to check if that's Jehovah's direction.
It should be because of our love for Jehovah.
When you make a vow, you know, there was marriage or whatever,
your love for Jehovah, that's what cements the vow.
It matters.
See, it matters to him.
So then finally, verse seven, for just as many preoccupations lead to dreams,
so too many words lead to futility.
So good counsel.
You are so filled with the word of God.
This is a special class and gillied as a special school.
We have other schools, SKE.
I'll mention something later about that.
But this is unique to have men.
Jehovah's appointed to instruct teaching committee.
Select some totally whole soul and devoted to Jehovah God teaching you during the class.
And you're going over all these things and the word of God.
So it's all in there and it's just special.
So you think Jehovah that you have this education and you're going to move forward to glorify him.
See, and that's pretty well similar to what it's mentioned here in the last sentence in verse seven.
But fear the true God.
So you soon to be graduates, keep those words in your heart.
Just fear the true God in the days ahead and stay away from these kind of dreams about self.
Preoccupation, you know, no, not for you.
And otherwise your education was futile.
Not good.
And I don't see that in any of you and not in applying.
But such wise counsel from Jehovah God in his word.
So there's much, much more there.
I'm thinking about it with a little tool we have there with the research guide.
Now, we appreciate the next speaker very much and put his heart in his talk of brother Mark Sanderson.
And we have a nice line up that brothers prepared their talks with all their heart.
Mark's a member of the governing body and his talk is a question as a theme.
What will they be like?
Brother Sanderson, please.
At Luke chapter six and verse 40, Jesus said,
a student is not above his teacher.
But everyone who is perfectly instructed will be like his teacher.
Well, now what comes to your mind when you think about this verse?
Maybe you tend to think of it in terms of when you conduct a Bible study with someone.
Or you might think about it when you go to a program like Gilead and you're instructed there.
But in reality, we are all teachers every day in the classroom of Christian living.
If we have responsibilities, if we enjoy certain privileges, our brothers and sisters will watch us.
And those who work closely with us will learn from us and they will become like us.
Take the example of the Apostle Paul.
Now we know Paul was an outstanding teacher.
Can you imagine under inspiration he had the privilege to write 14 books of the Christian Greek scriptures.
Yet that was not the only way that the Apostle Paul taught others.
His example in Christian living was very powerful.
Now what could people learn from the example of Paul?
Let's consider some examples.
Let's go first to 1 Thessalonians, chapter 2.
1 Thessalonians, chapter 2.
And let's look at verse 7.
On the contrary, we became gentle in your midst as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children.
So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God,
but also our very selves because you became so beloved to us.
Paul worked hard for the brothers.
He was kind. He was gentle with them.
He was willing to give not just the message of the truth, but as he says in verse 8,
our very selves and brothers, that was the truth.
Paul said he was willing to do all things for the sake of the good news.
And just consider some of the things that he did.
Let's go to 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and just remind ourselves that some of the things Paul went through.
2 Corinthians 11 verse 23, Paul says,
Are they ministers of Christ?
I reply like a man, man.
I am more outstandingly one.
I have done more work, been imprisoned more often, suffered countless beatings and experienced many near deaths.
5 times I receive 40 strokes, less one from the Jews.
3 times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned.
3 times I experienced shipwreck.
A night and a day I have spent in the open sea, and the list just goes on.
What was, what could these ones who worked with Paul learn from him?
In other words, how did Paul's powerful example of love for God, of endurance, of hard work, and true unselfishness affect those around him?
Well, consider Timothy, who worked so closely with Paul.
What did Paul say about him?
Let's go to Philippians chapter 2, Philippians chapter 2 and verse 20.
Paul said, For I have no one else of a disposition like his, who will genuinely care for your concerns.
For all the others are seeking their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
But you know the proof he gave of himself, that like a child with a father, he slaved with me to advance the good news.
Well, now here's a question, why was Timothy that way?
Why was Timothy so unselfish? Why did he work so hard for other people?
Well, no doubt, he was perfectly instructed, not just by the words,
but by the example of Paul.
Well, the same thing could be true of Priscilla and Aquila.
Paul said about them that they had risked their necks for him.
Well, where did they learn that from?
You see, we could go on with other examples of other close associates of Paul, but what is the point?
Paul's example in Christian living instructed those around him.
They became like Paul.
Now, why is that important to you, who are graduating today from the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead?
Well, very soon you're going to be graduates, and your mandate is to go forth and strengthen and stabilize the field and branch territory.
But now that's a big long term, isn't it?
What is the field and branch territory?
It's people. It's people.
Spiritual men and women who want to be learned, who want to learn, who want to be trained,
who want to reach the spiritual goals that they've set for themselves, and who want to grow to Christian maturity,
and because you are a Gilead graduate, they will watch you.
They will listen to you, and they will be instructed by your example.
When I went to serve many years ago, where the need was great on the island of Newfoundland,
we were so blessed to have in our congregation a graduate of the seventh class of Gilead, Brother Fred Weins.
Brother Weins was an anointed brother who was baptized in 1928.
Now, I'll be honest with you, I don't remember even one talk that Fred Weins gave.
But his warmth, his sense of humor, his zeal for the ministry, and his love for people,
the example that he set is truly unforgettable.
Fred talked to everyone, and I mean everyone in the ministry.
One time, we were out in the service, we pulled into the gas station, as soon as we stopped the car, Fred jumped out,
and when we were ready to leave, we looked around to try to find Fred.
Wasn't in the store, wasn't in the bathroom, he was nowhere to be seen.
Finally, we thought we'd check the other cars.
Well, that's exactly where Fred was.
Fred had knocked on the window and gotten in the car, and started to preach to all the people in that car.
Fred has now gone on to his reward, but his example of warmth, kindness, zeal, and love for people,
continued to teach me, and many others who knew him well, right down to this day.
So here is the question that rests before you.
What will you teach others by your example?
Be like Paul.
Love your brothers and sisters right from your heart.
Through your example, create an atmosphere of warmth and love like a greenhouse
where young plants can blossom and grow.
Your fine example can warm up a congregation, a circuit, a Bethel department,
perhaps even a branch office.
Never allow yourself to be a cold executive who creates an atmosphere like a freezer.
Because those little plants will shrivel up and they will stop growing in that environment.
Yes, be willing to impart not just the many wonderful truths of God's Word that you learned at Gilead,
but your own heart and your own soul.
And then because those beautiful spiritual people you work with will be properly instructed.
What will they be like?
They will be just like you.
And may the blessing of our marvelous God, Jehovah, go with you wherever you go.
Thank you very much, Brother Sanderson, for that interesting scriptural discussion and some of those past experiences.
Of course, the brother might be saying, should have paid closer attention to my talks.
No, no.
It was out against how much you loved him.
Okay. Now, Clive Martin, the helper to the writing committee is going to address us now.
With this interesting theme, remember the terms of peace.
Have you ever had to sue for peace?
Why are you thinking of the question? Would you please turn with me to Luke chapter 14?
I'd like to put you and me in the middle of one of Jesus' illustrations.
Jesus has been talking about what it costs to become one of his disciples.
And then, in verse 31, he says,
or what king? This is where we come in.
What king marching out against another king in war does not first sit down and take counsel whether he's able with 10,000 troops to stand up to the one who comes against him with 20,000?
If, in fact, he cannot do so, then while that one is yet far away, he sends out a body of ambassadors and sues for peace.
How do you think their conversation goes?
I want peace, and these are my terms. Hardly.
It's more like, I don't want to be your enemy.
Please, tell me what to do so that I can have peace with you.
Now, with that in mind, Jesus gives the application. First, 33.
In the same way, you may be sure that not one of you who does not say goodbye to all his belongings can be my disciple.
That is you and me. We got to the point where we realized we did not want to be an enemy of Jehovah.
And so we were willing to sacrifice everything, belongings, career, status, everything for the privilege of being a peace with Jehovah and a disciple of his son.
Now, for you students of Class 150, your pursuit of peace with Jehovah has led you into the special full-time service.
And what a beautiful record every one of you has set.
You remind me, in many ways, of a group in the Bible that literally sued for peace.
Now, their story is told in the book of Joshua, chapter 9.
That's right. We're talking about the Gibbianites.
Do you have Joshua, chapter 9?
They had heard of all the things that Jehovah had done for his people Israel and to his enemies.
They did not want to be Jehovah's enemy. And so they did exactly what the King and Jesus illustration did.
They sent a body of ambassadors. So Joshua, chapter 9.
And this is the opening overture in verse 6.
We have come from a distant land. Now, make a covenant with us.
When they didn't get a very warm initial reception, they persisted, verse 8.
We are your servants. In other words, set the terms. We want peace.
They were willing to sacrifice everything in order to enjoy peace with Israel and with Israel's God.
Now, Joshua and the chieftains didn't see it exactly the same way, particularly when they found out that they were not from a distant land as they had claimed.
Nobody likes to be fooled. So the tone got a little stoner.
So turn, look at verse 23. This is what they said.
From now on, you are cursed and you will always occupy a slave's position as gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.
What will it give me, and I say to that? 25.
We are at your mercy due to us whatever you think is good and bright.
And just so, the terms of peace were set, verse 27.
That day, Joshua made them gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the assembly and for Jehovah's altar at the place that he should choose, and they remain so to this day.
So now, a few questions, a few lessons. What do you think of the Gibyanite assignment?
It was presented to them as a punishment.
But just think. There had been sold off as household slaves.
Their humble service would directly contribute to pure worship and support Jehovah's people.
That's a privilege, isn't it? I mean, that's the kind of service we reach out for as a privilege.
Now, the kind of service, was it because they were lowly people, no skills to do anything else that they were given this kind of job?
Well, look at chapter 10 and verse 2, kind of people the Gibyanites were.
Gibyan was a great city, like one of the royal cities.
It was greater than AI and all its men were warriors, capable, skilled people.
However, clearly the Gibyanites realized that if their army was no match for Israel, then Jehovah didn't need them to bolster his army in order to complete the conquest.
It was better for them to ask Jehovah what he wanted them to do and to do that.
So the sacrifice was definitely worth it.
Does that mean, though, that their skills were irrelevant, never even considered?
Oh, no. For example, a few hundred years later, Ishmaja the Gibyanite is listed among David's 30 mighty men.
Different needs, calls for different skills.
What did Ishmaja do with his skill?
Well, he humbly defended pure worship and Jehovah's people.
So the details of the assignment were different, but the focus was about the same.
Another question, was this just a short-term starter assignment?
Yeah, we'll do this for now, but once the campaign is over, we'll be able to resume our regular place in society.
Well, back to verse 27 of chapter 9.
Remember what Joshua said at this point when he gave them their assignment?
They remain so to this day.
Not only to the day that Joshua wrote these words, about 900 years later,
among the exiles that returned from Babylon to Jerusalem to restore pure worship were temple servants.
And likely, this included descendants of the Gibyanites.
Just think, these temple servants, once again, were willing to leave behind the life that they'd built up to make the track in behalf of pure worship and take up their duties.
They must have really cherished their assignment in order to stick to it that way.
So as we've talked about them, have you been noting some personal lessons?
These are the four that come to my mind.
Number one, as with the King in Jesus' illustration and the Gibyanites,
peace with Jehovah is such a treasure.
We're willing to sacrifice anything to enjoy it.
Number two, Jehovah's terms for us include humble service on behalf of pure worship and in support of his people.
And that kind of humble service we view as the greatest privilege.
Number three, different needs call for different skills.
And that may lead to a change of assignment for you or for someone else.
Either way, we don't compete, we don't compare.
The details of the assignment may be different, but the focus or goal is always the same.
And the fourth one, we cherish our assignment.
We're going to stay in it as long as Jehovah allows.
In short, we cherish our assignment. We love our God.
Peace with Jehovah is a treasure that we will never let go.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it that very much.
We're now at peace.
Brother Martin, thank you for those kind, encouraging thoughts.
Now, this is something special for you here in the class, the 150th class of Gilead.
Now, you may be wondering about your post-graduation life.
Probably been doing that.
At least a couple of weeks.
And how will you use what you've learned from Gilead to strengthen and stabilize the branch organization and others?
I remember the Sanderson touched on that.
And you'll hear more later about that, that's our purpose.
Now, here's a question to ponder.
What if you could look down the road?
Let's say two, four, six, or even 30 years into the future from this day of graduation.
It'd be nice to be able to do.
Well, we're pleased and informed me that the teaching committee has included that this graduation special feature in connection with this graduation.
It consists of four pre-recorded interviews of Gilead graduates.
Currently in their assignments, see, and all four of the brothers are serving on branch committees or branch committee members.
So the interviewers will begin now, and then another will follow each of the next three parts of the program.
So we'll have a part and an interview.
Now, first, we're going to travel to the country of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Now, there we find a brother who graduated from the 138th class of Gilead.
Listen as he explains how his Gilead training has helped him to work humbly with his fellow brothers and branch committee members.
Enjoy the video.
Brother and sister Gabi Chwa will be returning to Congo.
It's difficult to find one word or expression that can sum up what I personally feel after this training in Gilead.
The in-depth study of Jehovah's personality opened my eyes more fully to the way he values people.
And this has helped me to look for opportunities to strengthen others by placing their interests above my own.
For example, my wife and I made ourselves available to support the brothers in cleaning a regional convention venue.
They loved thinking that we were joking.
And finally, they gave us humble tasks in cleaning.
We did it with joy, and it allowed me to get to know the brothers and the circuits better.
Taking these opportunities has a much more profound effect on the brothers than simply giving talks.
Gilead has also helped me to show honor to the other members of the branch committee.
On the committee, I serve the brothers of different age groups.
While I feel that my normal inclination is to speak too much, I have learned from others on the committee how to humbly listen.
For example, I had to present a concept to the branch committee and I put all my heart in the presentation.
I was 100% sure it would be approved.
Guess what? None of the options were approved.
Honestly, inside myself, I was upset and ready to give up.
What helped me was meditating on the example of another fellow branch committee member and how he reacted in times like this.
Thanks to Gilead, I have learned to benefit from the qualities of each one of the brothers that work with no matter who they are or the experience they have.
Jehovah's organization is made up of people from different cultures and backgrounds.
And these differences can at times be to us like a huge gap that threatens our unity.
In one of our lessons in Gilead, Matthew 5, verse 3 was used to show that the only way to bridge the gap is to be a spiritual person.
So every time I'm overwhelmed by a feeling of inadequacy or I'm about to vent my frustrations, I reconnect to Jehovah and Jesus by studying the Bible and praying for help.
I would definitely say that Gilead has given me all the tools I need to build the bridge of unity among Jehovah's people whenever I see a gap.
And that tool is to feed my own spirituality.
So a nice addition for the program here. Look forward to the other videos.
Now, next we have a helper to the teaching committee and so for a long time, not picking on your age bill, but you look good.
That's because his sand is right out there. So I try to be careful.
And we always look forward to it, Brother Malinfon has to share with us his theme is boast in Jehovah.
There are many people who love to boast. Politicians frequently boast about what they have done and what they promise to do for their constituents.
And businessmen, they love to boast about how successful they are and how much money they are making.
And athletes, you know, athletes are prideful. Many of them. And they boast about the events that they've been great in. They've won.
In fact, you know, it's an interesting to note that in the highly competitive sports world, there is an expression for great achievers.
The expression is goat, G-O-A-T, greatest of all time.
Can you imagine people thinking that somehow they have been the greatest of all time?
When we hear the words greatest of all time, only one person comes to mind.
He was the greatest man who ever lived truly the greatest of all time, Jesus Christ.
And His greatness had nothing to do with politics, business, or playing games.
But it had everything to do with praising Jehovah and boasting in Jehovah God.
Jesus knew the council that's recorded at Jeremiah, chapter 9, verses 23 and 24.
And this scripture, this text is beautiful. Jeremiah 9, 23 and 24. It says,
This is what Jehovah says. Let not the wise man boast about his wisdom.
Let not the mighty man boast about his mightiness. And let not the rich man boast about his riches.
But let the one boasting boast about this, that he has insight and knowledge of me,
that I am Jehovah, the one showing loyal love, justice, and righteousness in the earth.
For in these things I take delight declares Jehovah. Isn't that beautiful?
So to boast in Jehovah really means that we take pride in our God, Jehovah.
We're proud to bear His name. We rejoice in His reputation.
We've got it in the scriptures, and we can see it in the organization today.
And Jehovah takes delight when we boast in Him in His provisions, in His justice, His promises, and in His loyal love.
So you students of the 150th class of Gilead, students soon to be graduates, I should add,
you've got a lot of reasons to boast in Jehovah God. And you know that throughout His ministry,
Jesus boasted in Jehovah. If you examine closely the scriptures and things that Jesus said,
you'll be able to see on many occasions how He boasted in Jehovah, just to give you one example.
Remember when the rich young ruler approached Jesus, and he says, Oh, good teacher to the Lord Jesus Christ.
And what did Jesus say? Why do you call me good? Nobody is good except one. God.
That was a wonderful boast in Jehovah God, glorifying Him.
So you students can boast in Jehovah, you've been doing it for a long time, but because now, though,
you have the privilege of going out, fulfilling an assignment, and showing how much you really do rely on Jehovah God.
You can boast because you've experienced what Jesus declared a John chapter 8 verse 32.
Jesus said, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Well, that's something we all know.
But don't minimize it. Appreciate the freedom you have right now because you know the truth.
You've been set free from the lives of this world that hold people in bondage about false beliefs in life and death.
You're free from human thinking that man is going to remedy the problems of this old world, and we know they can't do it.
They haven't got the wherewithal to do it. No man can really direct his own steps, not even a perfect man.
Jehovah can deliver his people, too, even where we're under severe persecution.
Jehovah can intervene whenever he sees fit to do so.
You can boast also in another thing that your slaves of Jehovah, now you're in a unique position because very few slaves are allowed to choose their master.
But you've done it. You've chosen Jehovah God to be your master and to be a slave to him.
And you know that Jehovah is with you, and you're happy, and you're willing slaves of Jehovah and of Jesus Christ.
And it's a remarkable slavery, really, because no one has the freedom that we enjoy in our slavery to Jehovah God.
We're so free and able to do so many things, serving Jehovah, but all the while, enjoying the good life that God has given to us.
You can boast also in the brotherhood that you can gather together an assemblies to praise Jehovah God.
And you know Jesus' words are true. Two or three are gathered in his name. There he is in our midst.
So whether it's tens of thousands gathered together at a big convention or two or three gathering together secretly, you know that Jesus Christ is there with you.
You can also boast in the great privilege you have through prayer. Just think about it for a moment.
You can talk to the Almighty Creator of the universe personally. That is really something quite remarkable.
But that is a privilege we have, and we boast in the privilege we have of addressing Jehovah, asking him for his help for his spirit to guide us, his strength and protection.
And there's something else to that I find fascinating that you can boast in.
You can boast it because you bear the fear inspiring name, Jehovah's Witnesses. Think about that.
You're carrying Jehovah's name and how grateful really we are that back in 1931,
the visible part of Jehovah's organization adopted the name Jehovah's Witnesses. And it's not just the name of a religion.
It's a description of what people do. They live their lives to honor Jehovah God. They are living witnesses of the Creator.
That is a privilege that we have. And that separates us from all religion on the earth. And there's no other religion that wants that name anyhow.
But we're delighted that we have it. And they regret perhaps a few that they didn't listen to it or adopt it.
We are God's name people. And at first Chronicles chapter 16 verse 10, it says this,
boast about his holy name, let the hearts of those seeking Jehovah rejoice. And if you examine synonyms, rejoice is a synonym in certain cases for boast to boast in Jehovah.
And you can boast over the fact that Jehovah has allowed you a very special privilege. You can see the unseen.
Not all people can do that. Division of many people in this world is limited just to just the physical that they see before them.
But they can't see the unseen. I remember a man who said,
what has God ever done for me? That poor man, he was blind, totally blind spiritually. He enjoyed food, drink, the things the earth provides.
But he couldn't see behind those physical things. He couldn't see that there had to be a wonderful Creator who provided all of these things for him.
You can see the unseen. You see Jesus Christ ruling as king in the heavens. You see the new world that's coming. You see the resurrection of the dead.
You see the functioning of Jehovah God's holy spirit on his people today.
Finally, you know very well that we've only touched on a few things that you can boast in.
But you want to continue doing that, boasting in Jehovah. And right now I know all of you students, you feel great.
You've completed your course. You've done it. You're graduating from Gilead School. And now the doors of future activity are swinging open to you.
So as you undertake your assignments, whatever and wherever they may be, do these things please.
Stay humble, be happy and work hard and always esteem highly the great honor and privilege you have to boast in Jehovah.
Thanks. Thanks Bill as usual. We'd be thoroughly enjoyed your talk.
Now our second pre-recorded interview of a Gilead graduate. Now when his assignment takes us to Ecuador, South America.
This brother serves on the branch committee in Ecuador and he graduated from the one hundred and forty second class of Gilead.
Notice as he explains, notice the positive impact that Gilead graduates had on him from his childhood.
And how his training while at Gilead helped him to appreciate what is truly important.
Brother and sister Topia will be going back to Ecuador.
Gilead training is a beautiful way that Jehovah is using divine education to train people not only for their benefit.
Having Gilead graduate all around the world, we are sharing the impact of this school for the brothers and sisters who are working with his students and future graduates.
It was Gilead missionaries who first introduced the truth to my parents and helped them to the point of baptism.
So I have very pleasant memories of Gilead graduate being around my home since childhood.
The greatest legacy I received from my Gilead training is the privilege of getting to know Jehovah's beautiful personality more deeply.
I've been studying the Bible since childhood but doing so with the help of the Gilead instructors really helped me to make connections that I had never put together before.
You don't go to Gilead to learn abilities which can sometimes overshadow spiritual qualities.
Instead, a very important part of Gilead training is the study of Christ's personality.
You know, Jesus is most remembered not so much for his abilities but for how he perfectly reflected the beautiful qualities of his father.
While getting to know Jehovah and Jesus better, I was able to better see where I need to improve.
Of course, it can be discouraging at times to not always act as they do but that has helped me to have the proper perspective and rely on Jehovah begging him for his guidance while waiting for his help.
One of the best lessons I took away from Gilead is that people are more important than tasks or deadlines.
They are the reason for our assignment and that is why I need to show my love to my brothers and sisters.
Honestly, I don't feel at all qualified for this assignment but I learned that if Jehovah signs us a certain task, for sure he will give us what we need to accomplish.
That was very nice. I certainly appreciate it.
Now, we have one of the Gilead instructors next, Brother James Cawthon, and he's chosen as his subject, thriving in the trenches.
Located in the Western Pacific Ocean, the Mariana Trench is the deepest known location on Earth.
To help you get an idea of its depth, imagine that you could stack the Empire State Building in the trench.
It would take 25 such buildings to go from the bottom of the trench before you would reach sea level.
It is also one of the deadliest places on Earth.
Why is it? In a word, pressure.
The crushing pressure, water pressure on the floor of the trench is more than eight tons per square inch.
Now, to give you some idea, that would be the equivalent of having about 50 jumbo jets on top of you.
Surely, no life could live in that trench. At least that's what scientists thought.
But they were wrong. When they finally developed a submersible that would take them down into the trench, they found life teaming.
And not just surviving, but thriving. Now, how is that possible?
It's possible, friends, because Jehovah, our creator, knows how to deal with pressure.
Jehovah knows how to deal with pressure.
And this is a fact that should be comforting to all of us. Why?
Because the pressure in this system of things is increasing.
The strain, stress, anxiety for all people at all levels.
And the Bible tells us that these pressures are likely to increase in the near future.
But the good news is that Jehovah does more than just equip his servants to survive.
You can actually make one thrive.
Here's an example. Try this on for pressure.
You're surrounded by men who hate you.
In addition to hunting you down with a view to taking your life, they've spread slander and lies about you everywhere.
Your name has become a reproach. When people see you coming, they turn and run the other way.
Because they feel that your time is short and they don't want to be caught in the crosshairs.
Wherever you look, it seems like terror is waiting for you.
And as a result of these problems, you're struggling with depression.
Your own sins are staring you in the face.
The whole experience has taken a toll on your health.
You can't sleep. Your stamina is shot. Your body is wasting away.
Now, that was David's situation.
You can read about it in Psalm 31 verses 10 through 13.
The pressure was real. No question about it.
David's feelings were real. No question about that.
But something else was very real. And that was Jehovah.
And so Jehovah is where David would turn to.
Let's turn to his words in Psalm 31.
Psalm 31 and note his humble prayer beginning in verse 14.
He said, but I trust in you, O Jehovah.
I declare you are my God.
My days are in your hand.
Rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from those persecuting me.
Make your face shine upon your servant.
Save me by your loyal love.
David's life experiences had taught him the value of turning to God
and pouring out his heart in times of trial.
And he absolutely knew that prayer coupled with implicit trust and patience
would always bring Jehovah's blessing.
And you see, friends, the key to not just surviving,
but thriving under extreme pressure
is to have the internal pressure equal to the external.
And when this is true, there is no amount of pressure that can press you.
So in a spiritual sense,
and David received the internal fortitude,
or at some say, the intestinal fortitude,
meaning the courage and the strength,
that would make him equal to the pressure weighing in on him.
And how do we know that he received that?
Well, let's go back to Psalm 31 for just a moment.
If you look at verse 21, notice now the change.
He says, it made Jehovah be praised for in a wonderful way
he has shown his loyal love to me in a besieged city.
And then verse 23,
love Jehovah all you who are loyal to him.
Jehovah protects the faithful.
And finally, verse 24,
be courageous and may your heart be strong.
All you who are waiting for Jehovah.
So you see, David received an answer to his prayer.
He, his prayer, coupled with his faith and his patience.
He was waiting on Jehovah.
And Jehovah helped him not only to survive,
but to thrive.
And he added joy to David,
because David went on to find joy and happiness
in his responsibilities and privileges.
So what do we learn?
Number one,
David was able to face the pressure
because he had an unshakable faith in Jehovah.
And number two,
David's relationship with Jehovah
brought him the patience to wait on God.
And number three,
when a loyal servant of God humbly turns to Jehovah for help,
it is Jehovah's own loyal love
that has the effect of equalizing the pressure.
And you know there's something else.
David's experience in the trench
reached further than he ever knew.
Jonah, well in the belly of the great fish,
cited words from Psalm 31.
Jeremiah, who had many trials sometimes in his life,
often echoed phrases from Psalm 31.
And Jesus Christ himself,
the very son of God,
his final words from the stake,
was a quotation from Psalm 31.5.
So Jesus must have meditated on this many times.
And so friends like David,
Jonah, Jeremiah, Jesus,
and many, many others,
they all trusted in Jehovah
and Jehovah never failed to make them equal to the pressure.
He'll do the same for you.
And so in conclusion,
it really doesn't matter how great the pressure is.
It only matters where the pressure lies.
Do not let it come between you and Jehovah
and your worship and service.
Don't let it come between you.
Because then the external pressure
will only continue to move you closer
to your heavenly Father.
The life that flourishes in the Mariana Tranche gives
a positive example,
a beautiful example of Jehovah's limitless ability
to help his creation deal with pressure.
Prayer, trust, and patience
will always be rewarded by Jehovah.
Relief will come.
So remain close to your heavenly Father
and you will not just survive the pressure in the Tranche.
You will thrive spiritually.
Thank you, Brother Carlton, for your nice, insightful comments,
much appreciated.
Now our third interview involves a brother who serves as a member
of the Branch Committee in Sri Lanka.
He graduated from the 146th class of Gilead,
so just four back.
Listen carefully as he explains how Gilead training helped him
to see things about his personality
that he needed to refine
if he'd become a stabilizing
and strengthening influence
in his branch territory.
Brother and sister Sivakumaran will be returning to Sri Lanka.
In Gilead, wonderful thing is you get to learn
from the beginning Jehovah's dealing
with humankind, the vast history.
Learning that is humbling.
How tiny I am.
And the small role that I play in Jehovah's organization
is a realization before going to Gilead.
I thought I was a loving person
because we always think we want to be loving people.
But during Gilead, it was made away to me
that I had a spiritual blind spot.
There were brothers and sisters I didn't really notice before.
And that kind of taught me an important lesson.
It's not about giving talks
but really it's personal attention that brothers need.
So I need to give them my time.
And I need to help them understand that Jehovah
Jehovah loves them very much.
You know, one word that stands out
throughout the training is mercy.
Israel made many mistakes
but Jehovah never picked on them for their mistake.
He just wanted them to come back to him.
And that was a lovely lesson.
And as an overseer, I need to ask
a question that always rings in my ears.
Am I going to criticize?
Or am I going to comment?
Just to give you an example, before going to Gilead,
as a home overseer, I was strict
and came across stingy, to be honest.
But during Gilead, it was made away to me.
I need to change.
I need to be more generous
and I need to be merciful.
I vividly remember one instructor said,
saying no to everything can be addictive.
And it makes for an easy way out.
But we were admonished to say, yes,
whenever we can, and to help the brothers.
Something of Gilead, I can't do better than Jesus.
Love Jehovah.
Love people.
That's the whole training of Gilead.
And some of my feelings,
and every time I look at them,
think about Gilead,
I have a long way to go,
to put all those details into practice
and to change myself, to fit Jehovah.
So, yeah, I have a long way to go,
so I'm working on it.
So we pray that all of you,
soon to be graduates,
to examine yourself,
and ensure you have a strengthening effect
on the brotherhood.
Those nice humble expressions he shared with us.
Now let's turn our attention to another one of the Gilead instructors
and a helper to the teaching committee, Mark Numer.
The title of his talk is,
I cling to you.
You hold on to me.
For the Numer.
In this talk,
we want you to understand the sustaining power of loyal love.
Because it is this quality,
loyal love, and its power
that will help you face future trials
and challenges with confidence in Jehovah.
Well, you perhaps remember the definition of loyal love
from a written review,
but it's this.
It is love motivated by a strong commitment
and a deep attachment.
And here's how King David described loyal love
that existed between him and Jehovah.
He said at Psalm 63-8,
I cling to you.
Your right hand keeps hold fast on me.
Now this is loyal love.
I cling to you.
You hold on to me.
Now in the first century, a woman.
A woman who set an outstanding example
of clinging to Jehovah is Anna.
How so?
Let's find out.
We open our Bibles to Luke chapter 2.
We're going to read verse 36 and 37,
and see what lesson we can learn
and apply to you.
Now there was a prophetess, Anna,
the daughter of Fanuel, of Asher's tribe.
This woman was well along in years
and had lived with her husband for seven years
after they were married.
And she was a widow now 84 years old.
She was never missing from the temple,
rendering sacred service day and night,
with fasting and supplications.
Well, here we have it.
Everything we know about Anna is right here.
Luke recorded it.
She was 84 years old,
when Luke introduces her to us.
Likely, she hadn't lived long enough
to become a follower of Jesus
to be anointed with Holy Spirit
or to enjoy preaching the good news of the kingdom.
That's it.
If we stop right there.
But what if we don't?
What if we dig deeper?
What will we learn that will help you?
Well, let's do that.
Anna was born about 86 BCE.
When she was 23 years old,
Jerusalem was filled with violence and divisions.
Jewish leaders, such as the Maccabees,
were at war.
Roman forces under the leadership of a soldier named Pompey,
came to restore order,
and in the process,
some 12,000 Jews reportedly died.
It is possible that
Anna's husband was one of these victims.
Then when Anna was 47 years old,
the Romans appointed Herod as king of Judea.
Herod?
This man was not a descendant of David.
He was not even in Israelite.
He was an itemite.
The itemites were sworn enemies of true worship.
Now on top of that,
the hypocritical Jewish religious leaders
made life hard for people,
including widows like Anna.
So now Anna watches as Jehovah's house of prayer.
The place she cherished became a cave of robbers.
Pure worship is withering on the vine.
What will Anna do?
She could have been stumbled.
She could have reasoned.
I supported true worship on my life.
I believe the Messiah would come,
the prophecies would come.
I go to the temple every day.
I've done everything right.
But things have only gotten worse.
God lets my husband die.
An itemite is rebuilding the temple.
What's happening?
Has Jehovah left us?
Should I leave to?
Anna could have given up.
Walked away, became bitter.
But she didn't.
Why? Why?
It was their roots of her loyal love.
That sustaining power of loyal love went deep
and it wrapped around Jehovah.
And she had the power to keep clinging to him
under those circumstances.
Anna was determined to serve Jehovah
to the best of her ability.
What did she do again?
Looking at verse 37,
she was never missing from the temple.
She was in the right place,
rendering sacred service day and night,
doing the right thing,
with fasting and supplications
with the right attitude.
She was doing the right thing,
in the right place,
with the right attitude.
Nothing could stop this seemingly fragile servant of God
from clinging to her closest friend, Jehovah.
In effect, Anna was saying,
I cling to you, Jehovah,
and her loyal love was noticed.
Chapter 2 and verse 38,
it reveals that Anna was present
when the baby Jesus was brought to the temple.
And when she saw that baby,
what did she begin to do in verse 38?
It says she came near,
she began giving thanks to God,
speaking about the child to all who are waiting
for Jerusalem's deliverance.
Can you sense her joy?
Can you feel the joy she had
at seeing and perhaps even holding that little baby
the future Messiah?
This was something that this elderly woman
had never expected in her lifetime.
The child in front of her was proof,
tangible proof, concrete evidence
that Jehovah had not abandoned his people,
and he did not abandon Anna.
So not only had Anna clung to Jehovah,
Jehovah held on to her,
and and rewarded her.
This is loyal love.
Anna's faithful record
is so well known that some 50 years later,
50 years later or so Luke was compelled to write about her.
Where did Luke get his information?
Who did he talk to?
Did he talk to Mary interview her
or some of the older ones?
There was this woman, Anna.
She was at the temple.
She would never leave.
We don't know.
But what we do know
is that Jehovah inspired Luke
to record and to document her life
in his word so that we could be taught lessons.
And here we are some 2000 years later.
And we are using her life
as an example of commitment
and unbreakable integrity
for you students to imitate.
So what can you learn from Anna's example?
You may suffer loss of one kind or another.
You will come face to face
with the imperfections of others.
Your feelings may get hurt
and you might find yourself coping
with an unexpected change in your life
that is not pleasant.
Or you may feel that you're a victim
of an injustice or a serious misunderstanding
from within the organization.
What will you do?
This is what you will do.
You will cling to Jehovah
and you will experience him holding on to you.
You cling to him.
He holds on to you.
For example,
I recall a time when a brother serving
in a foreign field
due to a misunderstanding lost
of his privileges as an elder.
And he felt the decision was unfair.
He was deeply hurt.
But his wife, he and his wife
never stopped clinging to Jehovah
and their spiritual routine.
Then at a regional convention,
a brother approached him
and thanked him for the talk
that he gave on the program.
Well, he volunteered
in the cleaning department,
but he hadn't given a talk.
Then the brother,
I said to this former elder,
when I see your smile
in positive attitude,
yes, you gave a talk
and it was on loyalty
and it was loud and clear.
So the former elder now relates,
the experience taught me and my wife
that every challenger
or misfortune does not need
to represent a threat
to our spiritual well-being.
We've come to view rejection failure
or being misunderstood
as normal episodes
in the lives of competent, healthy people.
Instead of being crushed,
we grew.
You see, the couple looked
beyond their hardships,
and they clung to Jehovah.
How by imitating Anna,
they were never missing
from true worship
in the right place,
rendering sacred service day and night
doing the right thing,
with fasting and supplications
and sometimes those supplications
involved tears,
but with the right attitude
and Jehovah held on to them
and never let go.
The brother is still serving
in the foreign field,
he's an elder again
and giving memorable talks.
So what do we want you
to remember from this talk?
We want you to remember this.
When you come face to face
with future trials and you will
or challenges in your life
and you will,
this is what happens in life.
Be in the right place.
Do the right thing
with the right attitude
by doing this.
You declare Jehovah,
I cling to you,
and I trust you
hold on to me.
Thank you.
Very much, brother,
new mayor.
Anna is a beautiful example
for all of us,
no doubt about it.
Now, our final pre-recorded
interview takes us
to the West African country
of Ghana,
where David and Lynn Jones
currently serve.
Upon their graduation
from the 95th class
September of 1993,
they were assigned
to the country of Kenya,
East Africa,
they also served in Berundi
for eight years.
Presently,
they served in Ghana,
where brother Jones
serves as a member
of the branch committee there.
Now, you might remember this couple
when you see the video
because their class was highlighted
in the video
to the ends of the earth,
which marked the 50th anniversary
of Watchtower Bible School
of Gillian.
It was a very enlightening video, for sure.
Although the purpose
of the Gillian School training
has changed since then,
it's clear from
their heartfelt comments
that they've proven
to be a stabilizing
and strengthening influence
where they have served.
So enjoy the video.
This is the day
when we hand out assignments
to all of these students.
Good morning.
We knew that we were going
to get our assignment.
We went down to morning worship,
and then we had to line up,
and we were waiting to get our assignment,
and my stomach was churning,
and I felt really sick.
Sick with excitement,
as well as the fact that you knew
that whatever brother Jaros said,
the next sentence
that came out of his mouth
would determine the rest of your life.
It's hard to imagine
that 28 years
have gone by since our initial assignment,
but Gillian training really helped us
to understand that things
wouldn't always be easy,
and that when things weren't easy,
that we should never
overreact to situations,
but to keep calm
and trust in Jehovah.
I think one of the outstanding sections
of Gillian for me was the section
dealing with the gospels
and Jesus Christ.
Jesus was always kind.
He was always reasonable
in his dealings with people,
and so in class,
the emphasis was not on head knowledge,
but how we can imitate
Jesus Christ in our dealings with others.
And I remember a couple of phrases,
people over productivity,
and the kind thing is always
the right thing to do.
These lessons are still with me,
all these years later.
We were taught how to study,
and it helped us to study
in a way that would build a pool
or a foundation of principles
so that when we had a trial,
we would have somewhere to go
and dip into that pool of principles
that would apply to any situation
that you might face.
And it's true,
at the time you go through,
you're taking in all the knowledge,
you don't know when and where you're going to use that,
but it teaches you the method of,
let's store all this in the bank,
and then when I need it,
I know where I can go and pick it from.
One example that comes to mind
is a lecture we had that highlighted
Romans chapter 15 and verse 3,
where it talked about how
even the Christ did not please himself.
So, thinking about that lecture,
it makes me think of a situation.
When we'd been in the field missionaries
for a couple of years,
we were invited to go into the traveling work.
So, I was thinking to myself,
can I really do this?
But then I reflected back on that lecture,
Romans 15, 3, the Christ didn't please himself.
It's not about me,
it's about doing Jehovah's will,
it's about the people you serve.
Reflecting on that helped me to see myself
in that big picture and realise,
no, if Jesus could do that,
then this is what I have to do first.
I put the brothers and sisters first,
and we thoroughly enjoyed being in that circuit.
I don't even know why I was so worried
because at the end of three years,
we didn't even want to leave.
The impact of Gilead is not fully appreciated in the moment.
But as the years have gone by,
I do find myself reflecting on the lessons
that were taught during that class.
And I see how it's shaped the way I think can feel
all these years later.
So, I would say, yeah,
it's had a life or a personality changing effect on me.
When I think back of standing in that line,
I mean, it is very vivid in my memory of how I felt
and my stomach was definitely churning,
but these 28 years,
I have not regretted one single minute of it.
Being with the brothers and sisters,
serving in different forms of assignment,
I could definitely say without one shadow of a doubt
that I still would not swap it for the world.
So, we've enjoyed a rich, spiritual feast so far.
But there's more to come.
What a blessing these graduates will be
to the brothers and sisters in their assignments.
The second and third parts of the graduation
will be available on JW.org later this month.
We know you're excited to see the rest of the program.
To conclude this month's broadcast,
let's go to Tahiti.
It's the main island of French Polynesia,
a territory of about 118 inhabited islands.
It's a beautiful land marked by mountains,
waterfalls, and white sand of tolls.
The surroundings team with life,
man to raise glide through the water
while the land produces an abundance
of beautiful flower species.
The beauty of this island is found
not only in its natural scenery,
but also in the hospitable attitude of the people.
Our brothers and sisters of the Bahima congregation
make it a priority to share the beauty of God's Word.
Their territory extends from the city center
to the mountains and remote islands
of Apataki and Riccatiha.
They witness to the local fishermen at the beach
to the international sailors at its large harbors
and their efforts have proven successful.
Currently the congregation is conducting 107 Bible studies
and, yes, 107 brothers and sisters
from the Bahima congregation
send their warm greetings to you
wherever you are globally.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.